nginx -- HTTP and reverse proxy server, mail proxy server
=========================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`nginx` [ options ]

 options: [ -g directives ] [ -? | -h ] [ -p prefix ] [ -s signal ] [ -t ] [ -v ] [ -V ]

## DESCRIPTION

nginx (pronounced "engine x") is an HTTP server that also functions as
an HTTP reverse proxy and/or a mail proxy. nginx is known for is high
performance, stability, rich feature set, simple configuration, and
low resource consumption.

## OPTIONS

 `-?,-h ` Short help.
 
 `-c file`  Use an alternative configuration file.

 `-g directives` Set global configuration directives.  See EXAMPLES for details.

 `-p prefix` Set prefix path.  Default value is `/usr`.

  `-q` Suppress non-error messages during configuration testing.

  `-s signal` Send a signal to the master process. The signal can be
  one of: `stop`, `quit`, `reopen`, `reload`.  The following table shows the corresponding system signals.

   + `stop`    SIGTERM
   + `quit`    SIGQUIT
   + `reopen`  SIGUSR1
   + `reload`  SIGHUP

  `-t` Don't run, just test the configuration file.  The nginx checks
  configuration for correct syntax and then tries to open files
  referred in configuration.

  `-v` Print nginx version.

  `-V` Print nginx version, compiler version and the configure script parameters.

## SIGNALS
 
Nginx master process can handle the following signals.

 `SIGINT`, `SIGTERM`  Shut down promptly.
 `SIGHUP`   Reload the configuration, launch new worker process(es) using this new configuration, 
            while gracefully shutting down the old worker processes
 `SIGQUIT`  Shut down gracefully.
 `SIGUSR1`  Reopen log files.
 `SIGUSR2`  Upgrade nginx executable on the fly.
 `SIGWINCH` Gracefully shutdown all worker processes.

  Usually there's no need to explicitly control worker processes,
  nevertheless you can send them some signals:

 `SIGTERM` Shut down worker processes promptly.
 `SIGQUIT` Shut down worker processes gracefully.
 `SIGUSR1` Reopen log files.

## DEBUGGING LOG

To enable the debug log level, the `configure` script requires the
`--with-debug` option:

    ./configure --with-debug ...

and then set the debug level of the `error_log`:

    error_log /path/to/log debug;

It is also possible to enable the debugging for a specific IP address,
for example:

    events {
        debug_connection 127.0.0.1;
    }

## FILES 

 `/etc/nginx` Nginx configuration directory.

## EXIT STATUS
     
  Exit status is 0 on success, or 1 on failure.
  
## COPYRIGHT

Nginx is Copyright (C) 2002-2011 Igor Sysoev under the terms of a BSD license.

## SEE ALSO

thttpd(8), apache2(8), lighttpd(8), openssl(1) and the online
documentation [http://nginx.org/](http://nginx.org) and [http://sysoev.ru/nginx](http://sysoev.ru/nginx).

For questions and technical support, please refer to [http://nginx.org/en/support.html](http://nginx.org/en/support.html).

## AVAILABILITY

The latest version of nginx is available at the svn repository for
this project is at: [svn://svn.nginx.org/nginx](svn://svn.nginx.org/nginx).

## AUTHOR

Nginx is authored by Igor Sysoev \<igor@sysoev.ru\>.
 
Manual page written by Antonio P. P. Almeida \<appa@perusio.net\>
based on the manual page written by Sergey A. Osokin
\<osa@FreeBSD.org.ru\> that is distributed with the Nginx source.
